>> Jon: Somebody pointed out a couple of
things, yeah, if you have dev tools open.
I think some people are having
their tabs swallowed basically,
where the focus goes in to the dev tools
window after it's done on the document.
And then as far LisIC MPM
installing focusable but
still getting the error.
I'm not sure what error you're getting,
but for now, maybe just to make it.
I think if your It's not a node app,
so you won't be able to require it.
I think it's probably the error that
you're getting, so let's, I guess,
to kinda keep it simple,
let's go over it together.
But I think I'll just copy
the content out of it.
Okay, so back over on the app over here.
And then yeah I closed that one,
multiple versions of my app,
okay cool so we've got this here.
So yeah I'll pop open my code editor and
go back to
master all right and
then we're just gonna be
kinda living in modal.js.
Hopefully everybody can see that,cool.
So just for now I'm just gonna
go to this GitHub link and
I'm just gonna grab
the actual string out of it.
Basically all this is just
a list that I made of like
all the possible selectors for
elements or focus-able elements.
So we're just gonna copy that and
then do something like, just for now,
like focus symbol elements equals
that giant string of things.
Cool, so a couple of different
things that we've got, so
we've got our kinda
selectors are laid out.
So this is the modal,
this is the button that triggers it,
this is the gray overlay in the
background, and this is the cancelButton.
And then we have on the modalButton,
when you click it it runs this open task.
And then the cancelButton when you
click at, it runs to this close task.
And so we just kinda wanna add really
not to much functionality to it but
a little bit, it gets a little bit tricky
with some of the like, key binding stuff.
So one of the first things I'm gonna do,
which is just kinda my general
best practice is that always.
Start it off by saving
that active element,
I'm probably gonna use it again even in
this case where there is very little.
On the document it's still just
like kind of the way my line goes.
It's like, always capture- before you
change focus always capture what's
currently focus.
So, I do like Previously,
I can't remember what I called it.
Focused element or?
Previously focused equals
document.active element.
Cool so now I've just got
this in case I need it again.
So then we got a couple
of things going on.
Like I think the big kind of like tough
area is this Tab key trappings so
you are, you need to listen for
key down events and do all that.
So, we just kinda go over it pretty quick.
Again, I know, that a lot of people
are not JavaScript developers so
not really to,
there's libraries that would do this, and
not really to worry if the code
is going a little fast.
Just because it is the concept that
is there, that important part.
So we can have that event listener.
So it's only tabs on the modal when
the modal is focused that
we really wanna listen for.
So we can add an event listener for
all keydowns, and
then we'll just do something like trap,
something like that.
So whenever somebody
hits the keydown event.
Yeah, we're gonna just listen in there,
we're just trying to see if
they're using a tab or not.
Cool, and so
then basically we will basically
just make this little
function here called trap.
And what we wanna do here is Basically,
yeah, so
it's a key down event, so
it's gonna get the event tossed into it.
And so what we'll wanna do is list and
if the event,
and then we can listen to the key code.
So if the code key equals, and I wrote
down here cuz I never remember them.
So it looks like nine is tab and
you can just look these up online,
I don't expect anybody
to know what they are.
The other way you can do it is you could,
how I do it, [LAUGH] is I
console log event.keycode, and
then I refresh and then I hit tab a bunch.
I'm like, okay, I see,
it's nine, I don't, that's me.
[LAUGH] Cool, so then we basically
have two different cases here,
which is shift Is held down, and
then later, Shift is not held down.
And that's just, this is backwards,
the other way is forwards.
So then we can just do if e, and
then it provides a nice API,
so if the Shift key is held down,
so now we're Going backwards.
I think one thing that I
forgot to mention is that we
take this focusable elements but
it's not all that useful to us as
a string so I'm just going to move it.
Inside here cuz we only need it in here.
So we have this string of all
the focusable elements, but
we need to run a selector on it, and
then turn it into an array, basically.
I think that was in my notes, but again,
I know that's the most JavaScripty,
codey we're gonna get today.
But so basically we'll want to do,
instead of just
this string we can do something
like modal.querySelectorAll on it.
So for those that, again,
if you're more of a jQuery person,
you could just pass in a jQuery
selector with this string as well.
Whatever works for you.
But basically, instead of just a string,
which is just some words,
we want To select all of
those elements inside the so
this will provide us with a dom list
any focus-able item that's on there.
And then the last thing we'll want to
do is turn it into some kind of array.
And I know we've got people from
all different levels here so
hopefully I'm not boring
the advanced people but
not like making people that don't do a
bunch of java script feel really confused.
This is just like very domain specific, so
you can just do like whatever
array prototype trick.
Slice and
call it with itself focusable elements.
So basically,
yeah, we select all the focusable elements
and then we just turn them into an array.
And so now we have this like nice list,
so you can do things like,
var firstItem = focusableElements[0].
And then you can do the var lastItem
equals focus-able elements at focus,
I should have gone with something short,
length minus one.
Okay so all that code aside basically
this is just allowing us to get the first
focus-able thing in the and
the last focus-able thing in the.
>> Mark: Like is spelt wrong,
says you.
>> Jon: Thank you,
Mark, I didn't mean to get defensive.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Jon: Thanks, okay, so cool,
so now we've got these things going,
which is cool.
And so now that we're in here, We know
very specifically what we're looking for.
So if we're moving backwards, and
if the document.activeElement.
And remember, so we store it in
a variable when we very first begin.
And that's the element we're
on before the modal launches,
which in this case is gonna be
the button to launch the modal.
But remember, document.act development is
gonna keep updating as you're hitting Tab.
Like it's changing every
single time you move around.
So we have it stored here as previously
focus, but the second the user hits Tab,
the actual result here
is gonna be changing.
So Now that we're moving around,
if the document active element
is equal to the first item, so
if they're trying to move back and
they're as far back as we go,
we can just do that same kind of thing,
event.preventDefault, so
don't let them go.
And then we take that lastItem and
we call .focus on it.
So that's kind of
the whole basic idea there.
And then here would be four words so
then it would just
be ifdocument.activeelement
is equal to the last item,
event prevent default.
>> Speaker 4: I think you want that
else to be outside the shift key.
>> Jon: Yes, you certainly are right.
Let me try to grab this sucker here.
Ok.
So this is the if we're moving
backwards, right?
We still want it to be
inside the shift key.
>> Speaker 5: Do you mean that if.
>> Jon: Yeah, I screwed this up.
Okay, so yeah, if it's tab and
that's this block and
then if it's shift key,
then that's that block Yes,
thank you very much.
>> Jon: Okay,
so if it's Shift,
then we're moving backwards and
the only thing we really care
about is if it's the firstItem.
So then here, if it's not Shift
we're moving forwards and
the only thing we care about
is if it's the lastItem And
then if it is the last item we
call focus on the first item.
No we get my.
>> Jon: Okay,
sorry if that was confusing, I start.
Stuck it in the wrong place but basically
it's the same as a pseudo code logic it's
just a little bit more verbose and
confusing.
So basically it's just like forward or
backwards and
then all we care about if they're trying
to do something we don't want them to
do which is move past
the bounds of the modal.
So let's kinda see where we're at here,
so I click it and
then I tab through, it does not work.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Jon: Wonderful, okay, one second.
I think I did.
>> Speaker 5: It's
on 931.
>> Jon: Yeah.
>> Jon: Okay, cool, so yeah,
so now we can kinda
[LAUGH] tab through there.
Man, this live coding, so
good and we can go backwards or
forwards and stay in the model yeah
>> Speaker 6: Is this kind of a tab
trap though because you
can't tap back into
the URL bar.
>> Jon: So as far as, yeah tap traps
are interesting because they can kind
of be a little bit of an anti pattern.
So my understanding and
it's subjective at this point is like, so
you can still get to the URL bar
with command dollar control out.
Which I think a lot of people use,
the other thing is if you're
gonna be tap trapping.
You need to also respect things like
escape should close the model and
get you back out of the tap trap.
So I think they're a good practice as long
as you also give users an easy way out.
I think those go kinda hand in hand which
is why I have them both here, yeah.
>> Speaker 7: And Victor is asking,
should we also check if the user
presses escape key to close the model?
>> Jon: Yeah, yeah, so
then the last kind of thing that
we'll want to do here is, let's see.
Okay so that was if event shift key.
Get my and then else if (event, and
then you could listen at the keyCode.
And I think it's,
I wrote it down, 27 for escape.
Again, we could console log or look it up.
And then we could just
call that close method.
So now we can go back here.
>> Speaker 7: One little hint.
Victor posted a nice little
link to Keycode.info.
>> Jon: I've used that before.
[LAUGH] Keycode.
>> Jon: Nice.
So tab is 9, escape is 27.
>> Speaker 8: I'm
working on a, what's it called, mark down
editor right now cuz I'm taking notes.
And they actually broke the conviction
when you hit command L it
asks you to enter a line number
it pops up a little alert window.
>> Jon: Yeah we've fall into,
I've fallen into that in a lot
of jobs where you're like, so
you want to do like keyboard
short cuts your own.
But I think it helps a lot to
do a little bit of research on
what the conventions are especially
the browser ones you should not.
So it's like you know this,
it's kind of similar to
people hijacking the back button which
is a very popular thing still to do.
Or in like another accessibility
thing in the same vein is like for
a long time browsers like chrome what they
expected delete would go back a page.
And if you're in google and you went to
Facebook any hit delete it would go back
a page on but apparently was having
accessibility issues with like.
You're gonna get a form or something like
that and so they've bowser and just very,
very recently moving away from that.
And now I think they want
control in the left arrow or
command in the left arrow instead.
So, I don't know if anybody uses Chrome
and noticed for like the last month or so
when you would hit delete, it would
have a little thing that was like, nope,
you gotta do command left arrow.
So it's kind of in the same thing of like
you want keyboard shortcuts for your app,
but then there's keyboard shortcuts for
the browser.
And then there's ones for the operating
system and everybody kind of has to play
nice with each other.
>> Speaker 8: And there are only so
many keys.
>> Jon: Yeah, right exactly,
unless you get a bigger keyboard or
like five key combinations.
>> Speaker 7: I think that also really
just supports the principle
of providing multiple ways to
do the same thing because one
may end up actually no longer.
No longer be supported.
>> Jon: That's true.
Yeah, that's a really good point, too.
Yeah, I think, and
again a lot of the stuff, I think,
is just, I think one of the reasons
accessibility is difficult
again goes back to it kind of being
a moving target where it's like.
It's not as simple as run your website
through this checker and it tells.
I mean, there are great tools
that we're gonna cover,
but there's still stuff where it's,
and that's a great question.
Okay, I'm helping users tab through, but
now I'm hindering them changing the URL,
you know what I mean?
And you're kinda trying to Trying
to think of these different things.
I do think there are some
good best practices,
which is what I'm trying
to do here in the workshop.
So again, tab trapping's great,
but provide that escape path.
Which is a pun,
cuz it's literally the Esc key.
I made that up right now, thank you.
>> Speaker 9: Is there like a,
sorta, best practise to Like if
a person using this reader and
they wanna discover keyboard shortcuts, is
there like this is how you get to it for
most [CROSSTALK].
>> Jon: Yeah,
I think the most common
practice is the question mark.
It's where a lot of people put there.
So with nothing focused,
hit question mark.
But like I was kind of mentioning before,
at Twitter,
we did that kinda neat thing where we
have a div that gets injected to the top
that is tabbable but visually hidden.
And so it's only for
users that hit Tab right away,
they'll have this thing read to them.
We don't give it a display,
but it will be focusable, so
a screen reader would be able to read it.
So if you go to Twitter with
a screen reader on, and
you hit Tab, It'll just audio, it'll read
you something that's along the lines of,
we have keyboard shortcuts available.
Hit question mark to see what they
are that one's extra engineering work.
I would just hide it behind question
mark as the easy way to go.